the first cancer diagnosis was with my
uncle my Uncle Frank he was diagnosed
with pancreatic cancer very late he was
54 and only given a few months to live
and it was pretty much it he died a
pretty quick death and in our family we
pretty much just thought it was bad luck
you know he's in his 50s was mid 90s you
know it's how we sort of rolled with it
and then the following year my dad got
cancer he's the same age as my dad's
brother he's 54 and got advanced gastric
cancer but and he survived in that same
year later that year my sister got
cancer it was at that point that that
her oncologist suggested that we may
have Lynch syndrome so it was the first
time we ever heard anything like this
and so we were kind of like okay well
what's the next step and there wasn't
really any mention of a genetic
counselor or anything like that the N
College is sort of just ordered this
test between my father and my sister and
and all I know at the time looking at
the results that it came back
inconclusive
wasn't it a bearing of unknown
significance my dad and sister had
different polymorphisms which didn't
really indicate that we had this disease
or not so it kind of just left us at the
same place like no answers no direction
more like we're still going to get
cancer so then I started getting worried
as I started finishing college that you
know there's something really going on
should I be getting colonoscopies and I
finally at 23 I decided you know it's
like well I won't it hurt to get a
colonoscopy that was a ninth cancer at
that point when I pursue genetic genetic
counseling and testing and I was I was
really excited because I was I wanted to
find the mutation for my family I wanted
to know if I had it because I didn't
want to continue these colonoscopies if
I didn't need to and and then the
genetic counselor was like well we can't
really use you as a subject this is like
really just like no we have to it's it's
more informative if I used someone who's
had cancer and and so of course
immediately I thought you know thought
of my dad
he had already started cancer twice and
there was and you know they needed his
tumors to test for IHC and MSI and so
they did that I wasn't prepared for like
how long it was going to take to find
the mutation and it ended up taking nine
months for them to find my dad's
mutation because they had to find the
tumors from 12 years ago and they had to
do the testing and you know they started
off with the cheapest and easiest they
think genetic tests first and they
couldn't find anything and I think
finally they use the comprehensive
analysis to find the mutation and we had
a large deletion and the msh2 gene and
when we got that when I got those
results and my dad did you know I was
finally relieved that they found
something conclusive that we did have it
and that now that we can do something
about it
and so after that my genetic counselor
called me and she's like when do you
want to get tested because we have you
know have the mutation results and
everything and I was like as soon as
possible and so I think I came in if you
may first I think I remember those days
May 1st 2008 I got my blood drawn and I
think I got the results within a couple
weeks the day of was May 23rd 2008 I got
my results and so she told me that I
tested positive and I was like great ok
what to do now
and so I decided to take a proactive
approach and you know follow all my
recommended screenings like the
colonoscopy and individual and ovarian
screenings and just you know watch my
diet because I wanted to be in control
and that's one thing that I guess just
my personality like if I know there's
something I can do I want to do it and
blame myself in the end